+++
title = "URDF"
author = ["Fangyuan"]
date = 2023-05-15
slug = "20230515200714-urdf"
tags = ["ros", "urdf"]
draft = false
+++

Universial Robot Description File to describe robot in [ROS]({{< relref "20230125201500-ros.md" >}}).

> 1.  `title` are elements, and list `item` are attributes.
> 2.  `<>` is also elements.


## robot {#robot}

Root element of a urdf file. All other elements should be contained in this element.

-   `name`: the name of robot


### link {#link}

Describe a rigid body with an inertia, visaual features, and collision properties.

-   `name`: the name of joint


#### visual {#visual}

This element specifies the shape of the object for visualization purpose. Multiple instance <span class="underline">can</span> exists and the <span class="underline">union</span> of the geometry forms the visual representation of the link.

-   `name`: the name of link's geometry

<!--list-separator-->

-  origin

    The reference frame of the visual element with respect to the reference frame of the link. Default is same as frame of the link.

    -   `xyz`: represents the `x,y,z` offset, default is zero vector.
    -   `rpy`: represents the fixed axis roll, pitch and yaw angles in radians.

<!--list-separator-->

-  geometry

    The shape of the visual object. Can be one of the following: `<box>`, `<cylinder>`, `<sphere>`, `<mesh>`.

<!--list-separator-->

-  material

    The `color` and `texture` of the link. The `color` is set of `rgba` numbers range from `[0,1]`.


#### collision {#collision}

The collision properties of a link. Simple collision models can reduce computation time. And also, multiple instances can exist.

-   `name`: the name of collision model

Two subelements `<origin>` and `<geometry>` are same as above.


#### inertial {#inertial}

The link's mass `<mass>`, positin of its center of mass `<origin>`, and its central inertia properties `<inertia>`.


### joint {#joint}

Describes the kinematics and dynamics of the joint.

-   `name`
-   `type`: can be one of the following:
    -   revolute: rotates around the axis and has limits
    -   continuous: rotates around the axis and has no limits
    -   prismatic: sliding along the axis and has limits
    -   fixed: no motions
    -   floating: allows  motions for 6 DoF
    -   planar: allows motion in a plane perpendicular to the axis


#### parent {#parent}

Parent link which can be defined by using `link` attribute.


#### child {#child}

Child link which also be defined by using `link` attribute.


#### axis {#axis}

The joint axis normalized vector `xyz` specified for type of motion. Notice that `floating` and `fixed` do not use this field.


#### limit {#limit}

The upper `upper` and `lower` motion limit for joint. Omit if joint is `continous`.


#### origin {#origin}

The offset of position `xyz` and radians `rpy`.


## Links to this note {#links-to-this-note}

-   [Xacro]({{< relref "20230516152748-xacro.md" >}})

    > `xacro` provide macro extension for original [URDF]({{< relref "20230515200714-urdf.md" >}}), including variables and functions. We need to include namespace at robot element.
-   [Integrate URDF With Gazebo]({{< relref "20230516160223-integrate_urdf_with_gazebo.md" >}})

    > Some tips for integrate[ URDF]({{< relref "20230515200714-urdf.md" >}}) with Gazebo.
